# Source_new_FVCOM_Data-2016-17-
This code will provide an example on how to source 2016 and 2017 FVCOM data using the updated catalog link method 
This code sources FVCOM data for the years 2016 and 2017 using the new catalog system. You can access the full new catalog here: http://www.smast.umassd.edu:8080/thredds/catalog/models/fvcom/NECOFS/Archive/Seaplan_33_Hindcast_v1/catalog.html

It is important to note that 1978-2016 uses the GOM3 mesh and 2017 data uses the GOM5 mesh. If you change this code to add in more months (new links), you need to pay attention to the year, month, mesh, and grid nodes that are associated with each link. Example: on line 192, you will find this link to source bottom temperature data for april, 2016: temp_data <- read.csv(paste("http://www.smast.umassd.edu:8080/thredds/dodsC/models/fvcom/NECOFS/Archive/Seaplan_33_Hindcast_v1/gom3_201604.nc.ascii?temp[", time_id[i], ":1:", time_id[i], "][44:1:44][0:1:48450]", sep="")) but if you wanted to source bottom temperature data for May, 2017, the link would look more like this: temp_data <- read.csv(paste("http://www.smast.umassd.edu:8080/thredds/dodsC/models/fvcom/NECOFS/Archive/Seaplan_33_Hindcast_v1/gom5_201705.nc.ascii?temp[", time_id[i], ":1:", time_id[i], "][44:1:44][0:1:136431]", sep="")) ###Please note the changes in these links "gom3" -> "gom5", "201604" -> "201705", and "[0:1:48450]" -> "[0:1:136431]"

This code will source data for 2016 and 2017 for the months of April and September, as an example. This code extracts data from every FVCOM location in the GOM everyday within the month at 12pm noon and averages all daily values to get a monthy average value at each FVCOM location. This code Gets FVCOM data, then uses the raster and akima packages to both interpolate and snap the unstructured FVCOM data to a structured grid.

I do this because it makes it easier for me to just snap all interpolated variables to the same grid, so that it is easy to match up variable values and locations If you want to source data for any years prior to 2016, I recommend usingthe old fvcom catalog links, as you can use fewer links to access multiple years and months of data. This code does not contain the old links, it is just for the new fvcom system. If anyone wants to play around with this code and try to make it more efficent/stremlined, feel free to make a new branch and upload the new code.
